# Halite4
This repo contains my best submission for the Halite 4 competition on kaggle.com https://www.kaggle.com/c/halite. Its final rank is around ~26-30.

Initially I did this only as a way to learn python and start participating in kaggle competition. My background was in C programming for networking equipments and I have zero ML experience.

I took a direct (and you might say, naive) approach: each ship just tries to dig the most halite and steer as best as it can to get back to deposit at the shipyard. Each ship looks at four steps around it to find the highest halite cell (with weight to prefer nearer cells) and tries to go there. Neighboring ships don't go to cells that have already been chosen. This seems good enough that I stick with it til the end. I augmented this for the beginning phase (up to ~step 20) by choosing the top 9 halite cells in my quadrant for the first 9 ships. I control how much each ship digs by a maximum constant that varies based on game step and how aggressive other players are hunting.

Navigating crowded space seems very challenging. I try to solve this by assessing risk two steps around each ship at the beginning of each step. I assign varying risk values to surrounding ships based on whether it is my or enemy ship, its carrying halite, and its distance from our ship. I let my ships that might be attacked choose its move first followed by ships that have lower risk value (trying to make room for more risky ships).

With all of the above, my submissions' score just would not go higher than 1100. It will do well up until around step 70-200 when not enough ships will survive the hunting onslaught. That's when I realized that I need to hunt as well so I experiment with the easiest approach. I stop collecting at around step 70 and every ship with zero halite will look for nearby enemy ships (three steps around) with the highest halite and step toward that ship. There is no coordination between ships whatsoever. This seems to raise my score into 1200. I think it is not really the hunting that helps but it is mostly because I preserve enough ships to have a chance to collect again after step 300. I augmented this later by doing some digging if there's no enemy ship around and that helps somewhat.

Other noteworthy improvements came from reacting to what other players do. rica_chan's bot taught me a lot. :) For example, its shipyard destruction near the end prompted me to tighten the ship and shipyard creation logic.
